---
path: "/blog/002"
date: "2020-05-28"
title: "Motives From A Single Source"
---

_Dust_ has a lot more characters than _A Being of Some Cosmic Importance_, and as a result, it's an entirely different beast when it comes to character motives and perspectives. From chapter to chapter, the narrator switches, altering the tone of voice, perspective, and attitude of the chapter. Lonai is brave with a dash of self-pity. Somai is stern and controlled, but has a raging passion storming beneath the surface. Morstal is conceited due to his upbringing, but means the best for those around him. Tremulus dreams on a grand scale, but his mind dwells on love and personal comforts. Elias is almost entirely self-involved and self-destructive.

How can someone write a character who isn't born from a facet of their own personality or understanding? Sure, I could write a character with horrible motives, far removed from anything I could be capable of, but their dialogue and motives are still limited by my life experiences. The places I've gone, the ideas and perspectives which I've opened myself up to accepting or perusing.

So how do we address writing a myriad of characters, when each writer only has so much life experience to draw upon? How can we keep motives and dialogue from becoming stale? There's no right answer to this question, but I do believe that it's important to keep an open mind. When speaking with a friend, take note of how they speak. Their cadence. How they start their sentences. When scrolling Twitter or reading the news, keep an open mind as to the depth of human motive, and do your best to empathize with where people have come from, who they are now, and where they want to go.

And keep writing!
