---
path: "/blog/003"
date: "2020-07-15"
title: "High Tide on Haven 5"
---

It’s high tide on Haven 5.

The red giant, Haven, blazes in the sky above, heavy and warm. She breathes a particular pink into the daytime, a tint I love to paint. I dip my brush again, and pull a long horizon stroke onto the canvas.

I gaze down from my beloved clifftop, searching for subjects and negative space. On the rolling spotted green hills below, flightless Hoa-Hoa bark and nip at each other, flaring their blue crests, fighting over a flopping blowfish. Like the fish, I’m not long for this world. I’m leaving tomorrow.

I love it here. I love the salty scent of the air, the crackling fire of my cottage, the way that frost coats the landscape every morning, how the fringed groundhogs sing through the night.

But work demands it. I must move on.

My paintings will be displayed on overpasses, on television, described in detail over megaphones by ticket-hawkers on streetsides. They’ll be blown up for billboards, shrunk down for magazines, digitized for flashing online advertisements, animated for commercials. People will gasp at the paintings, they’ll open their wallets, and they’ll come.

And they’ll trample the grass, and frighten the groundhogs, and step on the speckled eggs of the Hoa-Hoa, and it’ll be all my fault, my fault for painting it. And when Earth dies, and the wealthiest of the wealthy pay to leave it all behind, this is where they’ll come.

But here and now, the air is still salty and clean, the big-headed crickets still flit about, the sandy beaches foam free of footprints, the sunset is still unshared.

For one last high tide, it’s still mine.
