---
path: "/blog/a-waterfall-at-lake-flatstone"
date: "2020-09-15"
title: "A Waterfall at Lake Flatstone"
---

I fed her from my hand.

I saw her through a break in the trees while picking apples in my grandmother's orchard. She was gigantic, fishlike with a dog snout and crocodile jaws, glowing gold and white, warbling through the underbrush like an eel on centipede legs. Nothing like the animals I'd seen in books or magazines, and bigger than my grandfather's skiff. We locked eyes for a moment before she turned, her hundred legs crunching through the underbrush. I rushed after her, a bushel of apples in a wicker basket strapped to my back.

She trudged an hour to Lake Flatstone, where I followed her to a dark cove with shimmering, coal-black water, fed by a distant waterfall. She slid into the water, so I followed alongside her on the shore. In time, she reached the waterfall, and climbed into a cave behind it. I knew this waterfall ... Samuel died here five years ago, so I waited on the shore. One thing was certain: I needed to see the beast when it returned.

So there I sat, on the rocky grass at the edge of the deep lake, waiting and waiting. I waited until sunset, then finally stood, ready to return home. But as I stood, a low groan emanated from the water, the rumbling purr of a hundred-foot cat. I glanced back at the lake, and again met the eyes of the creature, just inches below the surface of the clear lake water. I staggered back, suddenly terrified, but the creature stayed still, then lifted her upper half from the water, leaning her head on the ground at my feet. She had a mane, white and bristly like an old horse's. I reached out a hand and slowly pat her head, then sat beside her. She softly set her heavy head in my lap.

I brushed her mane with my own hairbrush, and fed her a dozen apples as she purred in my lap. We watched the sunset's reflection in the lake, and breathed the cool evening air together. When the sun set, she slid back into the water, and I never saw her again.

I can still feel her coat under my hands. Cool, rough, wet. She was real.

And I fed her from my hand.
