---
path: "/blog/fire-snails"
date: "2020-10-13"
title: "Fire Snails"
---

“So how’s it going?” Cara asked.

Emily downed another shot of whiskey, and Cara leaned on the table. “Did you even hear me?”

“Huh?”

Cara snorted. “Don’t play coy, Emily. You’re here, right now, in the wide open world, doing stuff with real people for once. Don’t make me chase you around for an answer. It’s a simple question … how are you doing?”

Emily hesitated. “I … I’ve been through a lot this year. I’ve been thinking. Thinking about who I really am.”

Cara cocked an eyebrow. “How so?”

“Well … it’s gonna sound crazy.“

“Try me.”

Emily leaned forward. “Alright … let’s start from the beginning. It started with something I learned in Interplanetary Bio last semester. See, on OXE-18, a little planetoid way, way out in Quadrant AB8, there are … these snails. Fire Snails.”

“Snails.” Cara pursed her lips. “Go on.”

“But it … it’s crazy that they can live on OXE-18. It’s completely inhospitable. The days are scorching hot, cause the planet’s really close to its star and doesn’t have much of an atmosphere. And during the night, it gets brutally cold. So the snails spend their days underground, and their nights on the surface of lava pools. They eat fire-grass when it gets shady.”

“Sure, go on.”

Emily continued. “Well, they weren’t a big part of the class or anything. And I can really see why other people don’t care. But they’re stuck in my mind. Like … how amazing is it that something as simple as a snail can live in a place so averse to life? It’s like deep-sea anglerfish, or bacteria stuck to comets. It’s an insignificant thing that becomes crucially important because of its location.”

Cara waved over another two shots, and the friends downed them. “So, uh … erp … I can see why you find that interesting. But you said that you’ve been thinking about who you really are. What does that have to do with snails?”

“There’s something in the way they move, Cara.”

“Huh?”

“We watched footage of them in class. Each of the snails … well, they’re not like our snails. They’ve got thousands of tiny legs, and they move them in waves, so their legs only touch the lava for a fraction of a second before lifting up again. It’s like how fire walkers walk on coals. And it got me thinking about something my aunt said before she got taken away. She always said that life’s like a Fire Snail. Keep dancing, or get burned.”

“Sure.” Said Cara, who was much more drunk than she wanted to let on. “But Emily, geeze. You keep changing the topic. I asked you how it’s going. I didn’t ask about your favourite animal.”

“I ate escargot the other day.”

“Ugh.” Cara groaned, rubbing her eyes.

Emily continued. “While I was eating it, I wondered what a fire snail might taste like, or if they’re edible at all. Did you know that my grandpa was a cobbler?”

“Nah.” Cara hiccuped.

“When I was six, he gave me a pair of tap-dancing shoes. They were too small for me, but I danced in them cause my mom would have killed me if I hadn’t. And my feet burned the whole time. Maybe that’s what it’s like for them. To keep dancing, keep moving even though every step is painful and very, very important. Oh yeah, that’s something that I’ve done since we last chatted. I left the church.”

“Huh? Weren’t you like … Mormon or something?”

“Kinda. But I hadn’t been praying lately, not since the dreams started. See, I’ve been dreaming about the snails.”

Cara smirked. “Sexy dreams?”

Emily blushed, her eyes growing distant. “No, not really. But very sensual. I dream that I’m one of the snails, or that I’m one of the bony dinosaurs that drowns them in acid and swallows them. What must it be like, Cara, to have cartilage instead of bones, to have filaments instead of legs, to subsist and exist on sheer, brutal instinct? It’s absolute purity. To move fluidly in an immaculate dance, to exist in an unconscious dream, to feel the strongest heats and the coldest colds, and to find a place between them where you might safely live. I’ve always dreamt of them, but I’ve only just now realized it. And I … I want to be one.”

“Emily. You … you can’t … be a snail.” Cara stared at Emily, aghast.

“Not yet. The transplant would be too shocking to my brain. Believe me, I’ve looked into it. But I’ve taken an alternate route, more of a long-term plan. It’s a prayer ritual. It’s really helpful, actually. I … I pray to them, that when I die, they’ll plant my spirit into one of their bodies. And what really surprised me is that the more I prayed, the more vivid the dreams became.”

“Well, cause you’re fixated on it.” Cara eyed Emily. “I don’t mean to judge, but this seems like a really unhealthy fixation. I’m all for religious freedom, but there’s gotta be a more productive …”

“You know what’s amazing?” Emily interrupted, undeterred. “At the end of their lifetimes, the snails migrate to the nearest volcano, lay their eggs, and spontaneously combust. It’s a sacrifice for their children. Their bodies are super rich in chemicals, so when they burn, it heats the eggs, allowing them to hatch. Isn’t that amazing?”

Cara shrugged, discreetly paying for their drinks. “Sure.”

“I’ve come to believe that they’re more than animals. They have a transcendental power, Cara. The Fire Snail is holy, and I believe that with all my heart. It’s powerful, honourable. Something incredible that’s very, very real. They're my inspiration. And the more I pray to them, the more I receive. In dreams, they speak to me in dozens of tongues … I’ve begun transcribing it … it’s been incredible. You really should come by our meeting place this week.”

“Wait, there’s more of you?”

Emily nodded. “I think I’ve got a pamphlet here …”

Cara grimaced. “Nah, that’s okay.”

“You sure?” Emily looked hurt. “It’s really changed my life for the better. It could do the same for you …”

“Nah, that’s okay. I gotta level with you, Emily. I’m gonna go. I called you a cab, and they’ll be here in ten. It was great to see you.” Cara stood, quickly left the bar, and hopped into a cab without looking back.

The driver gave her a smile. “How’s it going?”

In that moment, Cara decided that maybe, just maybe, she didn’t want to know how her old friends were doing. Yes, it was settled. She’d let the past be the past, and focus on where she was headed. She even got it tattooed on her leg the following summer.

Keep dancing, or get burned.
