---
path: "/blog/the-shape-she-found-behind-the-wall"
date: "2020-10-21"
title: "The Shape She Found Behind The Wall"
---

The wall compressed under Dawn's hand, like a damp sponge.

This was no trick of the eye, no misplaced shadow, no water leakage, no dreamland apparition. This was real. She lay on her bed, her hand resting against the wall's surface as she lightly pushed against it, watching it slowly return to place, over and over again. It was a cream-yellow bedroom wall, dimly lit by the tiger-striped lamp on her bedside. She lay on her back, staring at the wall, dreaming of what might be causing such an anomaly, wondering if she was, in fact, awake.

She stood, pressed both hands on the wall, and leaned against it. The wall absorbed her hands, and she sunk inward. "Ugh!" She screamed, pulling her arms out of the wall, staggering away, horrified. But as she assessed her arms, she found no burns, no missing moles, no strange sensations. They were just as they were, unscathed.

So without another thought, she walked forward, pressed herself against the sponge-wall, and stepped through.

Dawn opened her eyes.

She was still in her room, just as she was, but something was different. Cubes, orbs, cones and prisms surrounded her in familiar furniture arrangements simplistically portrayed, coloured white and dusted with cream-yellow powder. In this place, her old lamp was a half-cone, the light shining from within reduced to an inverted cone, hovering weightlessly above its source.

Dawn understood these shapes. This abstracted compartmentalization resounded with her own understanding of the world. These same shapes were the reason she'd dropped out of art school ... her teachers' expectations never quite aligned with the simple shapes she saw, with the way she perceived reality.

She left her room and proceeded through the hall and down the stairs into her grandmother's kitchen, her hand brushing along the cylindrical railing, cream-coloured dust staining her fingers. Her grandmother and mother sat at the kitchen table, spherical heads aloft over rectangular prisms, cuboid arms extended from their bodies as they leaned on the table, discussing something she couldn't hear. Her mother's shapes were red, hot-headed and strong-willed, tough to please but bursting with energy. Her grandmother was a forest-green, rich with growth and nourishment, a woman who grew where she was planted. Dawn couldn't bear for them to see her, not in this cumbersome, detailed form, with all her flaws naked to the world. But although she was ashamed, she yearned to speak to them. "I want to live here," Dawn quietly said to her mother and grandmother.

But they didn't hear her, because they couldn't see her.

Dawn returned up the stairs to her room and picked up a simple cone, long and cream-coloured, from her bedside cube. She knew this cone to be a pencil, because this is where she left her favourite drawing-pencils. She sat on the edge of her cuboid bed, which was hard as plywood, lifted her implement, and pressed it against the air.

Baby-blue chalk dust scraped from the cone-tip against an invisible surface, and Dawn drew a shape in the air.

She drew a shape unlike any she'd ever seen. The shape could not be described, but it could be known by knowing Dawn, and knowing what she felt in that moment. Pleased with her work, Dawn stepped back through the wall into her room.

Once again, Dawn opened her eyes.

Back in her room, she found that the shape was still there, hovering above her bed, blinding, flashing, a tear in the atmosphere. The air around it shivered and shimmered, flickering with black-and-white electricity. She reached toward it, and the void tugged at her hand. She stepped back across the room, held her left hand near her eyes, playing with perspective as if the shape sat in her hand, then closed her fingers around it.

The shape vanished, and its two-dimensional likeness seared onto her palm.

Dawn felt the shape in her blood, in her cells, in her heartbeat and in her breath. It was a shape she had always known. A shape which had dwelt in her soul for many years. She had no fear of it.

The shape changed her as to be unrecognizable to those who surrounded her. She loved the shape, as she loved what it meant to her. It was her beginning-of-day, her nourishment, the energy which pulsed through her veins.

She loved it like a child loves the sun, like the wild loves a new morning.

She had become eternity, and all who knew her and who she once had been were amazed. She was time itself. She was the light, and she was the dark. She was form.

She was the shape she found behind the wall.
