---
path: "/blog/008"
date: "2020-08-18"
title: "Milky Way Madness"
---

A window is all that separates us.

On one side is me. A person. Flesh, bone, nerves. Little bloody details, down to the last atom.

On the other side is the void. Empty space into infinity, chopped and measured by our tools, plotters, mapmakers. But even with all our knowledge and placement, all the division in the universe, nothing changes the distance between things. It's empty. Engulfing, with no room for escape. We're ants on a leaf, floating in the middle of the ocean.

Between me and this space is a pane of glass.

There's a kid dangling from a metal pole outside our vessel, her arms raised in excitement as a metallic mechanism twists and spins her in the void. A thrill ride, like bungee-jumping or sticking your arm in a crocodile's mouth. Tempting fate in absolute zero for kicks. But fate's a tiny shard of ice travelling at 3200 kilometers per hour. I'd rather not be on the other end of it.

I turn back to my notebook as footsteps approach at my door.

"Where's Nancy?" It's Nina. I shove my notebook under my pillow. "Oh, hey. Uh, they went to Sherry's."

Nina snorts. "Again?"

"They seem to like it."

"It's like ... Space Denny's. It's gross. Did they leave us any money?"

"Yeah, they gave me a bit. Where do you want to eat?"

She grins. "We're not eating. I've got a plan."

"Nina."

"David." She mocks my tone, rolling her eyes. "You're so sulky. Get up, we're going."

I groan dramatically and follow her as she hurries out of the room. We run up a staircase, dart across a fancy lobby, then arrive at our destination. It's Milky Way Madness. The thrill ride of doom, hanging outside the ship.

"You're crazy!"

Nina laughs, catching her breath. "You said that at Golden Street, too. That old roller coaster was a million times more dangerous than this."

"That's why I didn't go on it! And the money's for food."

"You've barely eaten this whole trip. Look at you, you're a scarecrow. Anyway, they probably left us fifty, right? The ride costs forty for two of us, so we'll have ten left! That's enough for a couple Yums."

I groan. "Ugh, YumYum? But ... but ..."

Nina shushes me, puts her hands on my shoulders and stares me in the face. "David. I'm gonna level with you. This has been the lamest summer vacation ever. All we do is sit around, watch TV and fight. Let's do something fun."

She's right, and I know it.

I sigh. "Well ... okay. But you need a waiver to ride. Mom and Van'll never sign off on it."

"All taken care of!" She pulls out two waivers with signatures on the bottom.

"They signed those?"

"Geeze." She grabs my hand and pulls me over to the ticket booth, slaps the waivers on the counter and smiles at the browbeaten ticket-taker. "Two tickets, please."

His eyes aimlessly drift down the waivers, then back up again. "That'll be forty." I reluctantly hand the money over, and he points to a long glass walkway behind the booth. "Ten's your change. Just down that hall." Nina grabs my hand as I pocket the change, and we rush down the hall, toward the ride. "See, dumbass? Adults are so gullible."

"So mom and Van didn't ..."

She snorts. "Obviously!"

A closed airlock blocks the walkway, so we stand behind a yellow line, waiting for it to open. We wait for a minute, then Nina breaks the silence. "So you hate my dad, right?"

I blank for a moment. "Wait, what?"

"He's trying hard. And you're ... you're kind of a huge jerk to him."

"... I know."

"If you know, then why? Why do you treat him like that?"

I think of my notebook, of my scrawlings, of the songs I listen to when I think of how things used to be. My thoughts ... my words ... they always come so easily to me, but right now they're all outside my head. I look away and scratch my neck, thinking. "It's ... it's not him at all. I just can't deal with it."

"You need to."

"Why? I don't owe anyone anything. It's not my fault that things change."

"Closing off doesn't change what happened, David. Being afraid won't protect you from it."

My cheeks flush. "I'm not afraid. And I don't need to explain anything. Van can't just come in here and replace my dad. He's not my family."

"Am I your family?"

I stare at Nina. She's blinking back tears.

"What?"

Her voice wavers. "Am I your family?"

I pause, sure of the answer, but not sure how to say it. "Yeah. Yeah, of course you're my family."

"Then my dad is too. He has to be. Cause he's mine. Got it?"

Ghosts buzz in my ears, but I push them back. "Yeah. Got it."

The airlock opens, as if on cue. There's a two-seater already docked at the end of the hall, and a burly woman in a yellow protective suit straps us into it. I'm not sure if it's a costume, or actually for her protection. Nina and I buckle ourselves in side-by-side, and two safety bars drop down in front of us. The woman grunts. "You know the rules, yeah? No unbuckling, no hanging over the bar, no rocking the ride. The waiver says your AirSuits are up to code, so that's good. If you get scared, remember, the ride's only a few minutes. Have fun."

I suddenly want to get off the ride. "But ..."

The woman pushes a big red button, and the seats rise toward a clear pane in the roof. Nina whoops, and I grit my teeth, holding onto the bar with all my might. The pane opens, then closes beneath us. Something hisses, then another pane opens up above. It's pitch black up there, and I grab Nina's hand. She grins at me, and we rise up out of the ship.

It's completely silent.

I look down at the ship as its red hull gets smaller, smaller, smaller. I swing my feet a little, wondering if this might be the end.

The arm holding us swivels, and the sun's suddenly in our eyes. It turns again, panning us over a view of the Milky Way. Nina elbows me and raises her hands, and I slowly raise my own, no longer holding onto the bar. My heart pounds.

But it's not as bad as I thought. The ride isn't boring at all, really. We're surrounded by stars, our arms in the air. This emptinesss ... it's not engulfing. It's freedom.

The rest of the ride is a blur. We turn some more, spin some more, and before I know it, we're back inside the ship. Before we go back to our suite, we grab some YumYum tubes at a concession stand and eat it under a fake palm tree, out of sight of the drunk partying adults.

Nina tosses her empty tube in a trash bin. "I get it, though."

"Hmm?" I squeeze the last of the YumYum out and let out a belch.

Nina burps too, and laughs. "Like, not wanting to let go. I couldn't when my mom left."

"How'd you get over it?"

She shrugs. "I didn't. But your mom, she's different. In a good way. And it's all just part of what we need to do. You know?"

"Yeah, I think. It'll take time though."

"I know." Nina glances up at a giant gaudy toucan clock on the hall's wall. "They'll be back soon, you ready?"

"Yeah."

We return to our suite and go to our own rooms. When the parents return, I'm sitting on my bed, thinking of things to write. Mom's a little drunk and Van's got a bit of a flush too. I raise a hand. "Hey, Van."

Van and mom gawk for a second. I haven't spoken to him in weeks. Van cautiously raises a hand. "Hey David. You get up to anything tonight?" I shake my head. "Nah. You guys get into any trouble?" Mom giggles. "A little. Night, Van." Van gives her a peck on the cheek and heads back to his and Nina's room.

Mom washes up then stops by my room before she goes to bed.

"How was your night, Davey?"

I shrug. "Alright. How was yours?"

She grins. "We had a great time. Sherry's is such a nice place."

I spin my pencil in my hand, and a quiet moment passes between us. Mom sighs. "You know, Davey ... Van and I thought this trip would be good for all of us. So you could get to know Nina, and maybe understand what our family could be like, but you've been so quiet, and ..."

I grab her hand. "It's okay, mom. I'm fine. I'm having fun, actually."

She smiles. "Really? I ... I ... that's ... I'm glad. Night, Davey."

"Night, mom." She leaves the room, and turns off the lights on her way out. I click on a side lamp, open my notebook, flip through a few pages, then tuck it back under my pillow. I don't feel like writing tonight.

I turn the lamp back off, sit up in my bed in the darkness, and raise my hands over my head. I'm on Milky Way Madness again, my heart in my throat.
