---
path: "/blog/010"
date: "2020-11-07"
title: "Samuel"
---

"How long have you known Samuel?"

"Three years now."

"And how would you describe your relationship?"

"Like anyone else, really." Janine fidgeted on the sofa. "I see him a couple times a week. He's comfortable to be around. Familiar."

"Familiarity is a powerful mask." Doctor Mills leaned back in his chair and sipped his coffee. "There are things in our lives, things that feel safe, consistent. But just because they happen to be, doesn't mean that they're meant to be."

Janine nodded. "I used to see him once every couple months. He'd hang around, we'd chat for a bit, and that was it. But now he comes walking with me, goes where I go. He's very persistent."

"Have you vocalized your feelings?"

"Yeah, yeah." Janine sipped at her own lukewarm coffee. "I've asked him to leave, told him to back off, tried everything. But the thing is, I think we're having a miscommunication."

"You and Samuel?"

"No, you and me."

Doctor Mills frowned. How so?"

"Don't take this the wrong way, I don't blame you ... but I get the feeling you don't believe Samuel's real."

Doctor Mills cleared his throat, pausing for a moment to choose his words carefully. "There are certainly aspects of Samuel that I believe to be real. He could be an apparition born from a memory, a perceived manifestation during an episode of psychosis. I do believe that you see him."

Janine stared at a half-dissolved sugar cube at the bottom of her cup. "So in other words, you think I'm nuts."

"Certainly not. I'm open to all possibilities." Doctor Mills said, just as he said to all his patients. "But I may need some convincing. What makes you sure that Samuel is real, and not a trick of your mind?"

"Well, if he stays overnight, I'm horribly tired when I wake in the morning. And the room gets real chilly when he appears."

"Extended trauma or stress could cause these symptoms as well, Janine."

"I've gone through enough stress to know that he's a different thing altogether." Janine sat back down on the sofa and rubbed her temples. "I feel like I'm losing it. But ... I feel completely conscious. I know I can tell the difference between fantasy and reality."

"You mentioned that you and Samuel have chatted in the past. Do you still speak to him?"

Janine shook her head. "No, not anymore. But he still speaks to me."

"How so?" Doctor Mills glanced over his glasses at her.

Janine set her unfinished coffee down. "He's got a quiet voice. A soft tone with sharp words. He repeats my worst fears to me, tells me that soon it'll be just me and him. He says it like he loves me. It's like ... a blade wrapped in a warm cloth, if that makes sense. Feels warm, but cuts deep all the same."

"Records show you left Michigan a year ago. He followed you?"

"Yep. Same as when I left Marshfield. He follows me from life to life. Home, college, work. Don't get me wrong, most of the time I'm not afraid, but he's just ... there. Always. I just can't seem to shake him. And I know it might sound crazy, but I swear ... he gets his life force from me, like I'm a battery. Drinking my blood, draining the electricity from my neurons or something. Like I'm his door into our world."

"A conduit of sorts. And what makes you feel this way?"

"You remember those Komodo dragons in that nature documentary ... how the bacteria in their teeth slowly kills their prey? It's like that. His teeth are in, and now he's just watching me melt away as he grows stronger."

"And where is Samuel right now?" Doctor Mills asked.

"Right there," she pointed. "Sitting on the corner of your desk."

Doctor Mills looked where Janine was pointing, then back at Janine. "Would you like to know what I see?"

"You don't see anything."

"You're right, I don't. But I'd like to try something. Would you ... he ... take offence if I moved my hand through him? To see if I feel anything?"

"He won't care. Go ahead."

Doctor Mills stood, reached toward the far end of his desk and waved his hand over the spot where Samuel sat.

It was frigid, clammy, raw, like he'd reached into a frozen body and touched a beating heart. His blood ran ice-cold, and a lump grew in his throat. Carefully, he pulled his hand away from Samuel and returned to his chair, struggling to maintain his composure.

"You know, Janine, as a matter of fact ... " he looked back to Janine, but the office door across the room slammed shut. She'd bolted.

"... Janine? Janine!" Doctor Mills stood and rushed from the room. She wasn't in the lobby. He spoke with the team at reception, but there was nothing they could do. Janine had prepaid with cash, and the contact information she'd given was phoney. She was gone, and the doctor would never see her again.

That night, Doctor Mills went home early, had a hot bath, and went to bed. As he fell asleep, he pulled the covers up over his shoulders, but couldn't seem to shake a chill that had come over him. There was someone else in the room.

A forever presence, infatuated.

A dream, born to reality, an unshakeable feeling, a living hunger.

And as Doctor Mills grew colder and cooler, Samuel grew warm.
