---
path: "/blog/012"
date: "2020-10-24"
title: "A Warm, Soft Flame"
---

A warm, soft flame burned gently inside the stone

she found

the stone on the beachfront, beneath a rickety, barnacle-encrusted dock that hung precariously over the beach. At high tide she was at her aunt's chowder shack, chopping through an endless pile of clams, but she had an inkling to visit the dock

at low tide

she took a red pail down to the beach to pick sand dollars for her aunt, but when she arrived at the rocky shore, the sky was dark and stormy, and there were no shells or urchins to be found. Instead, she noticed a flickering orange light amidst the rocks and sea debris beneath the dock. Intrigued, she approached the pile, dug through the slime, and pulled from the rubble an odd black stone, smaller than a ping pong ball, covered in glowing orange cracks. The stone looked like it might be ready to burst, so she set it--ever so carefully--in her pail, carried it back to the shack, and asked her aunt about

the stone

sat in a tub of warm water on the restaurant's kitchen countertop, tucked beneath a scratched old Tupperware container, where it might be less likely to explode and hurt a customer. It spewed little plumes of steam every two hours, so her aunt moved her prize cactuses away from it. It became a sort of family pet to them, and the girl began to love the stone as

an inclination

possessed her one evening. She tiptoed downstairs after her aunt had gone to bed, and removed the stone from its Tupperware prison. She cracked small pieces from the stone's veneer with a spoon, peeling it like a hard-boiled egg. Its sweet odor enticed her, and she wasn't the only one. Just the other night, she'd caught her aunt taking a long whiff under the Tupperware. But this stone wasn't for sharing. She'd found it, so she'd be the one to taste it. She took

just a nibble

was hardly enough. She popped the whole thing in her mouth and rolled it on her tongue. It was bright, earthy, and sweet, like a ball of grass with a touch of honey. A sizzling spice burst through the sweetness, and within moments, she'd swallowed the whole thing and washed it down with a bowl of yesterday's chowder from the fridge. She felt full for

a whole week

passed, and her aunt said nothing about the stone. She'd also had an inclination those few nights, and it had just been a matter of time until one of them ate it. A month later, the girl felt ill and yearned to return to the shore. After school, right at sunset, she left her books just inside the restaurant door, and rushed down to the oceanside. She kicked off her shoes and walked in the rough sand to where the lapping waves met the shoreline. The sunset's brilliant purple and red light danced upon the waves. The girl fell to her knees, exhausted, and breathed out

a spirit of flame

departed from her lips, brushed her cheek as it passed, then floated out to sea, toward the sunset. She'd known in her heart that this would happen, but hadn't thought that it would happen so

soon

things returned to normal. And as bygones are bygones, the girl never dwelt too heavily on what had happened that summer evening. But she never forgot what had happened, and she never doubted that it was real, because during long summer evenings, at sunset, she still felt in her belly a warm, soft flame.
