---
path: "/blog/013"
date: "2020-11-02"
title: "He Knew Such Things"
---

On a freezer-burn winter morning, just after sunrise, Irene discovered a clear disc near the sidewalk. It was barely wider than her fist, but somehow last night’s snow had melted around it in a perfect circle, five feet wide.

“What a curious thing,” she thought to herself, eyeing the disc cautiously.

Irene was a delicate person in body and spirit, and treated unknown factors of life with great care, as a matter of pride. She borrowed a pair of tongs from Svetlana, the old woman who lived on the bottom floor, lifted the disc carefully from its resting place, and was surprised to find that it was cold to the touch. It was as thin as paper, but rather heavy for its size. She carried it up the building stairs to her apartment, and showed it excitedly to her portly wife Sam, who was reading a newspaper on their old sofa.

“Throw it out,” said Sam. “We’ve got enough trash around here.”

Sam was right. Their kitchen and bedroom were tidy, but the living room was full of old boxes that Irene had yet to sort through. She took Sam’s advice to heart, and after dinner took the strange disc out to the dumpster, which sat in an alley across from their apartment building’s parking lot. The dumpster’s lid was heavy with snow, so she brushed some off with a dead evergreen branch, hoisted the lid upward, and tossed the disc to the far edge of the dumpster.

POP! The dumpster flashed with light, Irene leapt back, and the dumpster lid slammed shut! She stared at the dumpster, surprised. On the side of the dumpster where she’d thrown the disc, the snow had melted away completely, again in a perfect circle about five feet across.

“Oh, darn. Oh, oh, darn!” Irene hopped from foot to foot nervously. This strange flash was a new factor, and the disc was now too enticing to throw away. Perhaps she could use it to heat the house, or to cook food, or keep away those kids who’d been playing ding-dong-ditch at their door at two in the morning. She put on her mittens and climbed into the dumpster, searching for the disc, which had wedged itself between a rusted hubcap and a bag of rotting vegetables. “It’s like a … heat bomb or … somethin' … might … come in useful …“ she muttered to herself as she climbed out, carefully holding the disc in her mittens.

She knocked her boots on the edge of the dumpster to clear the sludge from the bottoms, and grinned to herself, glad that she’d saved the disc.

“Irene.” A shaky voice spoke from across the alley.

“Hmm?” Irene turned, startled.

It was a bald man in a torn black jacket, a scarf tied over his eyes, his mouth hanging wide open, dripping blood. He walked toward her very, very slowly, a long-fingered hand with just three fingers outstretched, reaching for the disc. “Irene.”

Irene held the disc close, as if it might shield her. She didn’t usually come out to the alley late at night, and she suddenly regretted having done so. “H … how do you know my name?”

The man paused for a moment, as if struggling to understand her words, his breath growing rapid, heaving. He began staggering toward her again, his tongue lolling out from his mouth. “Irene. Irene. Irene,” he said, blood bubbles bursting on his lips with each breath. He moved faster, faster, faster, until he broke into a full loping run, leaping and stumbling, barely staying on his feet. His hands reached toward her, stretching away from his body, grasping greedily, desperately, the veins of his palms bursting from his skin, thrashing like long tongues, licking toward her, desperate for a taste. Irene screamed, and threw the disc at his feet.

POP! The man collapsed, screaming an unearthly wail, his legs shrivelled and cracking, turning to dust. Irene bolted away, running with all her might, across the parking lot, up the building stairs, into her apartment.

She burst in and slammed the door. “Get the gun, Sam!” Sam jumped to attention, grabbed their shotgun from under the bed, and patrolled all night while Irene explained what had happened, talked fruitlessly with the police, and sipped hot chocolate while she tried to fall asleep. But the strange man didn’t come to the door that night, or any other night.

Irene never saw him again, because he had no reason to return.

He knew her name not because he knew her, but because he knew such things. He knew names, he knew desires, he knew scents, he knew directions. He did not know society, he did not know order, he did not know life or death. But he knew that he was, and he knew what he must do.

That night, he approached a body, used a body, discarded a body, breathed the disc’s essence which he so desired, and continued his passage through the mortal plane as a warm grey mist. One more piece of the puzzle, one more dream digested, one more symbol in the code, one more step toward eternity. He was so, so, hungry, as he’d been since the beginning. He’d be full, someday, someday.

It was only a matter of time.
