---
path: "/blog/016"
date: "2020-12-07"
title: "The Yama"
---

There is a place I only know from photographs, sitting lonely at the bottom of the world. A gently-angled stone hill several miles wide in diameter, frozen stiff by the Antarctic air, tapered toward a huge chasm. A bottomless hill, as if the planet tried to swallow itself. Russian explorers called it Yama when they discovered it, which simply means ‘pit’.

A human being can trip on the outer rim of the Yama and slide for minutes, unable to dig their blades into the sheer surface of the frozen stone or manage to regain their footing. One misstep by even the most seasoned outdoorsman, and it’s over. A five-minute slide followed by a nasty drop into a black, icy pit. A Canadian exploration crew vanished at the Yama in 1999 when they flew over it in a helicopter. Something happened as they crossed over the pit’s mouth, and they dropped like a brick. The crew was never heard from again.

The newspapers were cruel about the situation, dubbing the Yama as the ‘Bermuda Triangle of Antarctica’, but I don’t blame the explorers for trying. When humans discover a crevice in the ocean floor, a cave in a desert, or a hollow tree, we experience an immediate and urgent need to know what’s inside. Morbid curiosity is our greatest asset against the dangers of the dark night. By transforming the unknown into the known, we light a lamp of knowledge in the hall of human history, push the natural world further away from our cities, and strengthen our place at the top of the food chain. Places which are hidden, unknown, dangerous, and empty are magnetic to the human spirit. We can’t help ourselves.

But sometimes an empty space is just that: empty. A place for things to disappear, to be swallowed by the unknown and never return. I want to see the Yama for myself someday, not because I want to know what’s inside, but because witnessing the unexplorable is comforting. To know that not everything can be known, that not every emptiness can be filled in by our machines, moved by our plans, or covered by our roadways. The Yama is a pit by definition and in its essence. A lack of mass in a world of creation and endless plans. An absence, a nothing. The edge of the world, never to be crossed or known. A vanishing place.
